
Adobe Experience Platform Web SDK overview
Adobe Experience Platform Web SDK is a client-side JavaScript library that allows customers of Adobe Experience Cloud to interact with the various services in the Experience Cloud through the Adobe Experience Platform Edge Network. In addition to the JavaScript library, there is a tag extension to help with your Web SDK configurations.
For a step by step guide to setting up the Web SDK with tags and sending data to the solutions please see our Implement Adobe Experience Cloud with Web SDK tutorial.

IMPORTANT

This product is constantly evolving and growing to support more and more use cases. To keep up with the latest and see what we currently support, see the supported use cases page.


Adobe Experience Edge
Adobe Experience Platform Web SDK is part of the collection that makes up the Adobe Experience Edge. Experience Edge consists of the following technologies:

Adobe Experience Platform Web SDK: A JavaScript SDK and tag extension to dramatically simplify deploying Adobe technologies.
Adobe Experience Platform Mobile SDK: An extension to the v5 mobile SDK to allow customers to use the new deployment methodology
Adobe Experience Platform Edge Network: A global distributed network of servers that enable a new methodology of deploying Adobe products

The Adobe Experience Edge is a new framework for low-latency data collection, pluggable computing and rapid data activation across all addressable channels.
Adobe Experience Edge provides a single consolidated SDK for every channel (JavaScript, Mobile, Server-side), which sends data to a common Adobe domain (adobedc.net) and receives a single payload back for data and experience delivery.
On the server-side, a unified edge gateway and a common platform services framework makes it easy to plug-in and deploy new capabilities into this real-time computing environment.  This architecture:

Decreases customer time to value
Ends the need for “point” integrations
Improves performance compared to the old libraries
Decreases costs
Increases the speed of innovation
Creates sustained competitive advantages for Adobe customers

A single consolidated edge system allows customers to manage their advertising, marketing or personalization campaigns across all channels as an integrated experience. It allows Adobe to deliver services with lower total cost of ownership for customers.  It also helps increase the speed of product innovation by making the real-time edge pluggable and allowing Adobe and its customers to more rapidly add new capabilities and customer-defined logic to that real time system.
Video overview
The following video gives an overview of the Adobe Experience Platform Web SDK and Adobe Experience Platform Edge Network.
Your browser does not support the iframe element.
Libraries replaced by the Web SDK
The Web SDK is not just a wrapper around existing libraries. It is a completely new library, written from the ground up to incorporate functionalities of existing libraries. Its purpose is to end challenges with tags having to fire in the right order, inconsistency with library versioning challenges, and better dependency management. It is a new way to implement the Experience Cloud and it is open source.
The Web SDK replaces the following SDKs:

Visitor.js
AppMeasurement.js
AT.js
DIL.js

In addition to a new library, there is a new endpoint that streamlines the HTTP requests to Adobe solutions. Before, Visitor.js sent a blocking call to the visitor ID service, then AT.js sent a call to Adobe Target, DIL.js sent a call to Adobe Audience Manager, and finally AppMeasurement.js sent a call to Adobe Analytics. This new library and endpoint can retrieve an ID, fetch a Target experience, send data to Audience Manager, and pass the data to Adobe Experience Platform in a single call.
The following video demonstrates Adobe Experience Platform Web SDK and Adobe Experience Platform Edge Network in action. The video example uses a single call to Adobe which sends data to Experience Platform, Analytics, Audience Manager, and Target.
Your browser does not support the iframe element.
Migrating from existing libraries to Web SDK
To simplify your migration from any of the existing libraries to Web SDK, Adobe offers a streamlined upgrade path, allowing you to migrate each individual page of your website to Web SDK, without the need of migrating your entire website at once.
This means you can use Web SDK on a page and leave the existing libraries on the other pages, until you can migrate them as well.
at.js to Web SDK migration considerations
Before migrating pages that use at.js to Web SDK, make sure to enable the following Web SDK configuration options. This ensures the visitor profile is kept while navigating from pages with at.js  to pages using Web SDK.

idMigrationEnabled
targetMigrationEnabled


IMPORTANT

The following Target features are not supported when migrating from at.js to Web SDK:

Redirect offers
CNAME and cross-domain support



After migrating from at.js to Web SDK, you should remove the targetMigrationEnabled option from your configuration.



Business.Adobe.com resources







Advertising Revenue
Email Marketing
Second Party Data
Device Graph
Data Explorer
Tv Advertising



