
Datastreams overview
A datastream represents the server-side configuration when implementing the Adobe Experience Platform Web and Mobile SDKs. While the configure command in the SDK controls things that must be handled on the client (such as the edgeDomain), datastreams handle all other configurations for the SDK. When a request is sent to the Adobe Experience Platform Edge Network, the edgeConfigId is used to reference the datastream. This allows you to update the server-side configuration without having to make code changes on your website.
You can create and manage datastreams by selecting Datastreams in the left navigation within the Adobe Experience Platform UI or Data Collection UI.

For more information on how to configure a datastream in the UI, see the configuration guide.
Handling sensitive data in datastreams

IMPORTANT

The content of this document is not legal advice and is not meant to substitute for legal advice. Please consult with your company’s legal department for advice concerning the handling of sensitive data.


Corporate data stewardship policies and regulatory requirements are increasing restrictions on how sensitive customer data can be collected, processed, and used. This includes the collection, processing, and usage of Protected Health Data (PHI) which is subject to to regulations like the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA).
Datastreams provides three methods to assist you with securely handling your sensitive data:

Enhanced encryption
Data governance
Audit logs

Enhanced encryption
All data in transit though the Edge Network is conducted over secure, encrypted connections using HTTPS TLS 1.2. If the datastream is bringing data into Experience Platform, the data is then encrypted at rest in the Experience Platform data lake. See the document on data encryption in Experience Platform for more information.
Data governance
Datastreams leverages Experience Platform’s built-in data governance capabilities to prevent sensitive data from being sent to non-HIPAA-ready services. By labeling specific fields that contain sensitive data in your datastream schemas, you can take granular control over which data fields can be used for specific purposes.
The following video provides a brief overview of how data usage restrictions are configured and enforced for datastreams in the UI:
Your browser does not support the iframe element.
In Experience Platform, you can apply sensitive data usage labels to schemas and fields containing data that your organization deems sensitive. For example, the RHD label is used to denote Protected Health Information (PHI), and the S1 label represents geolocation data.

NOTE

For details on how to apply data usage labels within the Schemas tab in the Experience Platform UI or Data Collection UI, see the schema labeling tutorial.


When creating a new datastream, if the selected schema contains sensitive data usage labels, the datastream can only be configured to send that data to HIPAA-ready destinations. Currently, the only HIPAA-ready destination supported by datastreams is Adobe Experience Platform. Other destination services including Adobe Target, Adobe Analytics, Adobe Audience Manager, event forwarding, and edge destinations are disabled for datastreams containing sensitive data usage labels.
If a schema is being used in an existing datastream with non-HIPAA-ready services, attempting to add a sensitive data usage label to the schema results in a policy violation message and the action is prevented. The message specifies which datastream triggered the violation and suggests to remove any non-HIPAA-ready services from the datastream to resolve the issue.
Audit logs
In Experience Platform, datastream activities can be monitored in the form of audit logs. An audit log tells who performed what action, and when, along with other contextual data that can help you troubleshoot issues related to datastreams to help your business comply with corporate data stewardship policies and regulatory requirements.
Whenever a user creates, updates, or deletes a datastream, an audit log is created to record the action. The same occurs whenever a user creates, updates, or deletes a mapping through Data Prep for Data Collection. Regardless of whether it was a datastream or a mapping that was updated, the resulting audit log is categorized under the Datastreams resource type.
See the documentation on audit logs for more information on how to interpret logs from datastreams and other supported services.
Next steps
This guide provided a high-level overview of datastreams and their use in Data Collection and the processing of sensitive data. For steps on how to set up a new datastream, see the datastream configuration guide.



Business.Adobe.com resources










