
Data element types
After you set your action types in the Adobe Experience Platform Web SDK tag extension, configure your data element types.
This page describes the available data element types.
Event Merge ID
This data element provides an event merge ID when used. No configuration is needed for this data element. The data element that is provided stays the same until the visitor leaves the page or until the “Reset Event Merge ID” action type is used.
Identity Map
An identity map allows you to establish identities for the visitor of your web page. An identity map consists of namespaces, like phone or email, with each namespace containing one or more identifiers. For example, if the individual on your website has provided two phone numbers, your phone namespace should contain two identifiers.
In the Identity map data element, you will provide the following pieces of information for each identifier:

ID: The value identifying the visitor. For example, if the identifier belongs to the phone namespace, the ID may be 555-555-5555. This value typically is derived from a JavaScript variable or some other piece of data on your page, so it’s best to create a data element that references the page data, then reference the data element in the ID field within the Identity map data element. If, when running on your page, the ID value is anything but a populated string, the identifier will be automatically removed from the identity map.
Authenticated state: A selection indicating whether the visitor is authenticated.
Primary: A selection indicating whether the identifier should be used as the primary identifier for the individual. If no identifier is marked as primary, the ECID will be used as the primary identifier.

You should not provide an ECID when building an identity map. When using the SDK, an ECID is automatically generated on the server and included in the identity map.
The identity map data element is often used in tandem with the XDM object data element type and the Set consent action type.
Read more about Adobe Experience Platform Identity Service.

XDM Object
Use XDM format to send any data to the Adobe Experience Platform Web SDK. Formatting your data is easier with the XDM object data element. When you first open this data element, select the correct Adobe Experience Platform sandbox and schema. After you have selected your schema, you see the structure of your schema, which you can easily fill out.

Notice that when you open certain fields of your schema, such as web.webPageDetails.URL, some items are automatically collected. Even though several items are automatically collected, you can overwrite any, if needed. All the values can be filled in manually or using other data elements.

NOTE

Only fill in the pieces of information you are interested in collecting. Anything that is not filled in is omitted when the data is sent to the solutions.





Business.Adobe.com resources










