
Configure the Adobe Experience Platform Web SDK extension
The Adobe Experience Platform Web SDK tag extension sends data to Adobe Experience Cloud from web properties through the Adobe Experience Platform Edge Network. The extension allows you to stream data into Platform, synchronize identities, process customer consent signals, and automatically collect context data.
This document covers how to configure the extension in the UI.
Getting started
If the Platform Web SDK extension has already been installed for a property, open the property in the UI and select the Extensions tab. Under the Platform Web SDK, select Configure.

If you have not installed the extension yet, select the Catalog tab. From the list of available extensions, find the Platform Web SDK extension and select Install.

In both cases, you arrive at the configuration page for the Platform Web SDK. The sections below explain the extension’s configuration options.

General configuration options
The configuration options at the top of the page tell Adobe Experience Platform where to route the data and what configurations to use on the server.
Name
The Adobe Experience Platform Web SDK extension supports multiple instances on the page. The name is used to send data to multiple organizations with a tag configuration.
The extension’s name defaults to “alloy”. However, you can change the instance name to any valid JavaScript object name.
IMS Organization ID
The IMS Organization ID is the organization that you would like the data sent to at Adobe. Most of the time, use the default value that is autopopulated. When you have multiple instances on the page, populate this field with the value of the second organization you want to send data to.
Edge Domain
The Edge Domain is the domain that the Adobe Experience Platform extension sends and receives data from. Adobe recommends using a 1st-party domain (CNAME) for this extension. The default 3rd-party domain works for development environments but is not suitable for production environments. Instructions on how to set up a first-party CNAME are listed here.
Datastreams
When a request is sent to the Adobe Experience Platform Edge Network, a datastream ID is used to reference the server-side configuration. You can update the configuration without having to make code changes on your website.
See the guide on datastreams for more information.
Privacy

The Privacy section allows you to configure how the SDK handles user consent signals from your website. Specifically, it allows you to select the default level of consent that is assumed of a user if no other explicit consent preference has been provided. The default consent level is not saved to the user’s profile. The following table breaks down what each option entails:



Default Consent Level
Description




In
Collect events that occur before the user provides consent preferences.


Out
Discard events that occur before the user provides consent preferences.


Pending
Queue events that occur before the user provides consent preferences. When consent preferences are provided, the events will be collected or discarded depending on the provided preferences.


Provided by data element
The default consent level is determined by a separate data element that you define. When using this option, you must specify the data element using the provided dropdown menu.



Use Out or Pending if you require explicit user consent for your business operations.
Identity

Migrate ECID from VisitorAPI
This option is enabled by default. When this feature is enabled, the SDK can read the AMCV and s_ecid cookies and set the AMCV cookie used by Visitor.js. This feature is important when migrating to Adobe Experience Platform Web SDK as some pages might still be using Visitor.js. It allows the SDK to continue to use the same ECID so that users are not identified as two separate users.
Use third-party cookies
This option enables the SDK to attempt to store a user identifier in a third-party cookie. If successful, the user is identified as a single user as they navigate across multiple domains, rather than being identified as a separate user on each domain. If this option is enabled, the SDK might still be unable to store the user identifier in a third-party cookie if the browser does not support third-party cookies or has been configured by the user to not allow third-party cookies. In this case, the SDK only stores the identifier in the first-party domain.
Personalization

If you would like to hide certain parts if your site while personalized content is loaded, you can specify the elements to hide in the prehiding style editor. You can then copy the default prehiding snippet provided to you and paste it inside the <head>element of your HTML site.
Data Collection

Callback function
The callback function provided in the extension is also called the onBeforeEventSend function in the library. This function allows you to modify events globally before they’re sent to Adobe Edge Network. More detailed information on how to use this function can be found here.
Click data collection
The SDK can automatically collect link click information for you. By default, this feature is enabled but can be disabled using this option. Links are also labeled as download links if they contain one of the download expressions listed in the Download Link Qualifier textbox. Adobe provides you with some default download link qualifiers, but these can be edited at any time.
Automatically collected context data
By default, the SDK collects certain context data regarding device, web, environment, and place context. If you would like to see a list of the information Adobe collects, you can find it here. If you don’t want this data collected or you only want certain categories of data collected, you can change these options.
Advanced Settings

Edge base path
Use this field if you need to change the base path that is used to interact with Adobe Edge Network. This shouldn’t require updating, but in the case that you participate on a beta or alpha, Adobe might ask you to change this field.



Business.Adobe.com resources










